Servings = 12
Total = 1 hr + 20 min
Prep = 15 min
Cook = 35 min
Cool = 30 min

1. Lightly grease two 8-inch (20 cm) round cake pans with oil and line the bottom with cut-out round pieces of parchment paper the size of the base of the cake pans.
2. To a medium bowl, add the milk and vinegar, and mix. Set aside. You will see it starts to curdle, and this is what creates vegan buttermilk.
3. Place a sieve over a large bowl, and sift all the dry ingredients through it. Mix together, and then create a shallow well in the middle. Preheat the oven to 350°F (180°C).
4. Returning to the medium bowl containing the buttermilk, add all of the remaining wet ingredients. Mix thoroughly.
5. Add all the wet ingredients to the shallow well in the dry ingredients and mix until everything is just combined, but be careful not to overmix.
6. Divide the cake batter between the two cake pans. Gently tap the pans on the counter a couple of times to level out the batter and to remove any air bubbles. Bake in the centre rack of the preheated oven for 35 minutes, or until a thin wooden skewer inserted into the centre comes out clean.
7. Meanwhile, make the frosting. To a large bowl, add the butter and use a electric hand mixer to beat the butter until soft and fluffy, it should become slightly lighter in colour.
8. To a large bowl, add the powdered sugar, cocoa powder, then add the soy milk, and vanilla extract. Start mixing at a low speed and then gradually increase until everything is well combined. Once the melted chocolate has cooled off a bit, mix it in with the other ingredients until fully combined.
9. Once your cakes are done baking, let them cool off for 10 minutes in the cake pan before transferring to a wire rack to let them cool off completely. Be patient with this, as a warm cake will cause the frosting to melt when applied. If desired, the cakes can be levelled out with a serrated knife to create a flat surface for stacking the cakes on top of each other.
10. Rip or cut a piece of parchment paper in 6 pieces, of about 10 x 13 cm and place these pieces in a circular shape on your cake stand just wider than the size of your cake. These parchments papers will later be removed and they are used to make the end result neater, as less frosting gets on your cake stand. Place one of the cakes on the cake stand.
11. Using a spatula or butter knife, spread a layer of frosting on top of the cakes. Place the second cake on top upside down and frost the top and sides with the leftover frosting, then remove the parchment paper squares from under your cake.
12. Decorate the chocolate cake with desired toppings, and enjoy!

Notes
* We recommend using either soy or pea milk for this recipe, as the high protein content of these milks are what allows the milk to curdle to create vegan buttermilk. We can't guarantee other plant-based milk will be successful.
** We do not recommend swapping out the coconut oil for other vegetable oils, as other oils will affect the final texture of the cake. Refined coconut oil is recommended as it doesn't impart a coconut taste and scent. If you don't mind the taste of coconut in your cake, unrefined coconut oil can also be used here.

Storage
Best if this is enjoyed immediately. The cake can be stored in the fridge for up to 3 days. But among friends and family, this cake won't last very long!
The frosting can be made ahead of time and stored in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 3 days.
